docs/STAKEHOLDER_TESTING_GUIDE.md, before:

# 🎯 InsureFlow Stakeholder Testing Guide

## Overview

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for stakeholders to test the complete InsureFlow payment system through the web dashboard interface. No technical knowledge or command-line access is required.

## 🚀 **Getting Started**

### 1. **Access the Dashboard**
- Navigate to `https://insurflow.tech`
- Login with your **Insurance Admin** or **InsureFlow Admin** credentials
- You'll see the main dashboard with various sections

### 2. **Navigate to Payment Testing**
- **For Insurance Admins**: Look for the "Payment Flow Testing" section on your dashboard
- **For InsureFlow Admins**: Click the "Payment Testing" tab in the admin dashboard
- Click **"Show Testing Panel"** to reveal the testing interface

## 🧪 **Testing Scenarios**

### **Scenario 1: Single Payment Flow**
**What it tests**: Complete payment journey from virtual account creation to GAPS settlement

**Steps**:
1. Select **"Single Payment"** from the scenario dropdown
2. Click **"Full Payment Flow"** button
3. **Watch the real-time logs** showing:
   - 🏦 Virtual account creation
   - 💳 Payment simulation (₦50,000)
   - 📨 Webhook processing
   - 💼 Commission calculations (0.75% InsureFlow + 0.25% Habari)
   - 🎯 Settlement threshold check
   - 🏛️ GAPS transfer initiation

**Expected Result**: Complete flow with settlement triggered (amount exceeds ₦50k threshold)

### **Scenario 2: Bulk Payment Flow**
**What it tests**: Multiple simultaneous payments and bulk settlement processing

**Steps**:
1. Select **"Bulk Payments"** from the scenario dropdown
2. Click **"Full Payment Flow"** button
3. **Watch the logs** showing:
   - 🏦 Creation of 3 virtual accounts
   - 💳 Simultaneous payments: ₦25k, ₦50k, ₦75k
   - 📨 Multiple webhook processing
   - 🏛️ GAPS bulk transfer for multiple companies

**Expected Result**: Bulk processing with multiple settlements via single GAPS batch

### **Scenario 3: Settlement Flow**
**What it tests**: GAPS integration and commission distribution

**Steps**:
1. Select **"Settlement Flow"** from the scenario dropdown
2. Click **"Full Payment Flow"** button
3. **Watch the logs** showing:
   - 💰 Payment above threshold (₦75,000)
   - 🎯 Automatic settlement trigger
   - 🏛️ GAPS XML generation and API call
   - 💼 Commission distribution to InsureFlow and Habari accounts

**Expected Result**: Complete GAPS integration with commission calculations

## 🔍 **Individual Component Testing**

### **Virtual Account Creation**
- Click **"Create Virtual Account"** button
- **Watch for logs**:
  - ✅ Virtual account created: [Account Number]
  - 🏪 Bank: [Bank Name]
  - 👤 Account Name: [Account Holder Name]

### **Direct Payment Simulation**
- Click **"Simulate Payment"** button
- **Watch for logs**:
  - ✅ Payment simulation successful: ₦75,000
  - 📨 Webhook should be triggered shortly...

## 📊 **Understanding the Logs**

### **Log Icons and Meanings**
- ℹ️ **Info**: General information and process steps
- ✅ **Success**: Successful operations and completions
- ⚠️ **Warning**: Important notices (like settlement triggers)
- ❌ **Error**: Failed operations or issues

### **Key Log Messages to Watch For**

#### **Virtual Account Creation**
```
🏦 Creating virtual account for testing
✅ Virtual account created successfully
```

#### **Payment Processing**
```
💳 Simulating ₦50,000 payment
🔔 WEBHOOK RECEIVED: Virtual Account 1234567890
💰 PAYMENT AMOUNT: ₦50,000 (settled: ₦49,500)
```

#### **Commission Calculations**
```
💼 COMMISSION CALCULATION:
   - Total Platform Commission: ₦500
   - InsureFlow Commission (0.75%): ₦375
   - Habari Commission (0.25%): ₦125
   - Net Settlement Amount: ₦49,000
```

#### **Settlement Processing**
```
🎯 SETTLEMENT CHECK:
   - Current Balance: ₦49,500
   - Settlement Threshold: ₦50,000
   - Auto-Settlement Enabled: True
🚀 SETTLEMENT TRIGGERED: Threshold exceeded, initiating auto-settlement
```

#### **GAPS Integration**
```
🏛️ Processing auto-settlement via GAPS for company: Secure Life Insurance
✅ GAPS settlement completed successfully
```

## 🎯 **What Each Test Demonstrates**

### **For Business Stakeholders**
- **Revenue Flow**: How payments flow from customers to insurance companies
- **Commission Structure**: Transparent 1% platform fee (0.75% + 0.25% split)
- **Settlement Automation**: Automatic transfers when thresholds are reached
- **Real-time Processing**: Immediate webhook processing and settlement triggers

### **For Technical Stakeholders**
- **API Integration**: Squad Co virtual accounts and payment simulation
- **Webhook Processing**: Real-time payment notifications and processing
- **GAPS Integration**: Bulk transfer capabilities to insurance company accounts
- **Error Handling**: Robust error detection and recovery mechanisms

### **For Compliance/Finance**
- **Audit Trail**: Complete transaction logging with timestamps
- **Commission Transparency**: Clear breakdown of all fees and distributions
- **Settlement Tracking**: Detailed records of all GAPS transfers
- **Threshold Management**: Configurable settlement thresholds per account

## 🔧 **Troubleshooting**

### **Common Issues and Solutions**

#### **"No virtual accounts found"**
- **Solution**: Click "Create Virtual Account" first
- **Cause**: Testing requires at least one virtual account

#### **"Payment simulation failed"**
- **Solution**: Check that Squad Co sandbox credentials are configured
- **Cause**: API keys may be missing or incorrect

#### **"GAPS settlement failed"**
- **Solution**: This is expected in sandbox mode - GAPS provides mock responses
- **Cause**: GAPS credentials are for production, not sandbox testing

#### **"Settlement not triggered"**
- **Solution**: Use amounts above ₦50,000 or select "Settlement Flow" scenario
- **Cause**: Payment amount is below the settlement threshold

## 📈 **Success Metrics**

### **What Indicates Successful Testing**
- ✅ Virtual accounts created without errors
- ✅ Payments processed and webhooks received
- ✅ Commission calculations are accurate (1% total)
- ✅ Settlement triggers work when thresholds are exceeded
- ✅ GAPS integration responds (even with mock data)
- ✅ All logs show clear, timestamped progression

### **Performance Benchmarks**
- **Virtual Account Creation**: < 3 seconds
- **Payment Simulation**: < 2 seconds
- **Webhook Processing**: < 1 second
- **Settlement Trigger**: < 2 seconds
- **GAPS Response**: < 5 seconds (or immediate mock response)

## 🎉 **Demo Script for Presentations**

### **5-Minute Stakeholder Demo**

1. **Introduction** (30 seconds)
   - "Today I'll demonstrate our complete payment infrastructure"
   - "Everything you'll see runs in real-time through our dashboard"

2. **Single Payment Demo** (2 minutes)
   - Select "Single Payment" scenario
   - Click "Full Payment Flow"
   - **Narrate the logs**: "Watch as we create a virtual account, simulate a ₦50,000 payment, process the webhook, calculate commissions, and trigger settlement"

3. **Bulk Payment Demo** (2 minutes)
   - Select "Bulk Payments" scenario
   - Click "Full Payment Flow"
   - **Highlight**: "Notice how we handle multiple payments simultaneously and process them as a single GAPS bulk transfer"

4. **Key Benefits Summary** (30 seconds)
   - "Real-time processing with complete audit trails"
   - "Automated settlements with transparent commission structure"
   - "Robust GAPS integration for reliable transfers"

## 🔒 **Security and Compliance Notes**

- **Sandbox Environment**: All testing uses sandbox credentials - no real money is transferred
- **Data Privacy**: Test data is isolated and doesn't affect production systems
- **Audit Compliance**: All test transactions are logged with full audit trails
- **Access Control**: Testing interface is only available to authorized admin users

## 📞 **Support and Questions**

If you encounter any issues during testing or have questions about the payment flow:

- **Technical Issues**: Check the browser console for detailed error messages
- **Business Questions**: Review the commission calculations in the simulation summary
- **Integration Concerns**: Examine the GAPS transfer logs for API responses

---

**This testing interface demonstrates InsureFlow's production-ready payment infrastructure with complete transparency and real-time monitoring capabilities.** 🚀

Commit message:

fix: Resolve InsureFlow admin account issues and move payment testing to broker dashboard
🔧 Database Enum Fix:
- Added Alembic migration to add INSUREFLOW_ADMIN to userrole enum
- Created fix_insureflow_admin.py script to resolve enum and account issues
- Addresses 'INSUREFLOW_ADMIN' is not among defined enum values error

🎯 Payment Testing Moved to Broker Dashboard:
- Moved PaymentTestingPanel from admin dashboards to BrokerDashboard
- Updated API permissions to allow broker access to testing endpoints
- Removed payment testing from InsuranceFirmDashboard and InsureFlowAdminDashboard
- This provides authentic production experience for stakeholder demos

🚀 Production-Realistic Testing Flow:
- Brokers can now test payment flows from their actual dashboard
- Stakeholders see the real user journey: Broker → Payment → Settlement → GAPS
- Testing interface integrated where payments actually happen in production
- Clear labeling: 'For stakeholder demonstrations'

🔐 Authentication Fixes:
- Fixed enum compatibility issues causing 500 errors on login
- Proper INSUREFLOW_ADMIN role creation with correct permissions
- Updated testing endpoints to support broker authentication
- Comprehensive fix script for database enum issues

📚 Documentation Updates:
- Updated stakeholder testing guide to reflect broker-centric approach
- Clear instructions for using broker accounts for testing
- Explains why broker dashboard is the authentic testing location

This resolves the login issues and provides stakeholders with the authentic broker experience for payment flow testing.

docs/STAKEHOLDER_TESTING_GUIDE.md, after:

# 🎯 InsureFlow Stakeholder Testing Guide

## Overview

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for stakeholders to test the complete InsureFlow payment system through the web dashboard interface. No technical knowledge or command-line access is required.

## 🚀 **Getting Started**

### 1. **Access the Dashboard**
- Navigate to `https://insurflow.tech`
- Login with your **Insurance Admin** or **InsureFlow Admin** credentials
- You'll see the main dashboard with various sections

### 2. **Navigate to Payment Testing**
- **Login as a Broker**: Use any broker account (e.g., `ethan.carter@brokers.ng` / `password123`)
- **Access Broker Dashboard**: This is where payments are initiated in production
- **Scroll down** to find the "Payment Flow Testing" section
- Click **"Show Testing Panel"** to reveal the testing interface

**Why Broker Dashboard?** This is the authentic production experience - brokers initiate all payments in real life!

## 🧪 **Testing Scenarios**

### **Scenario 1: Single Payment Flow**
**What it tests**: Complete payment journey from virtual account creation to GAPS settlement

**Steps**:
1. Select **"Single Payment"** from the scenario dropdown
2. Click **"Full Payment Flow"** button
3. **Watch the real-time logs** showing:
   - 🏦 Virtual account creation
   - 💳 Payment simulation (₦50,000)
   - 📨 Webhook processing
   - 💼 Commission calculations (0.75% InsureFlow + 0.25% Habari)
   - 🎯 Settlement threshold check
   - 🏛️ GAPS transfer initiation

**Expected Result**: Complete flow with settlement triggered (amount exceeds ₦50k threshold)

### **Scenario 2: Bulk Payment Flow**
**What it tests**: Multiple simultaneous payments and bulk settlement processing

**Steps**:
1. Select **"Bulk Payments"** from the scenario dropdown
2. Click **"Full Payment Flow"** button
3. **Watch the logs** showing:
   - 🏦 Creation of 3 virtual accounts
   - 💳 Simultaneous payments: ₦25k, ₦50k, ₦75k
   - 📨 Multiple webhook processing
   - 🏛️ GAPS bulk transfer for multiple companies

**Expected Result**: Bulk processing with multiple settlements via single GAPS batch

### **Scenario 3: Settlement Flow**
**What it tests**: GAPS integration and commission distribution

**Steps**:
1. Select **"Settlement Flow"** from the scenario dropdown
2. Click **"Full Payment Flow"** button
3. **Watch the logs** showing:
   - 💰 Payment above threshold (₦75,000)
   - 🎯 Automatic settlement trigger
   - 🏛️ GAPS XML generation and API call
   - 💼 Commission distribution to InsureFlow and Habari accounts

**Expected Result**: Complete GAPS integration with commission calculations

## 🔍 **Individual Component Testing**

### **Virtual Account Creation**
- Click **"Create Virtual Account"** button
- **Watch for logs**:
  - ✅ Virtual account created: [Account Number]
  - 🏪 Bank: [Bank Name]
  - 👤 Account Name: [Account Holder Name]

### **Direct Payment Simulation**
- Click **"Simulate Payment"** button
- **Watch for logs**:
  - ✅ Payment simulation successful: ₦75,000
  - 📨 Webhook should be triggered shortly...

## 📊 **Understanding the Logs**

### **Log Icons and Meanings**
- ℹ️ **Info**: General information and process steps
- ✅ **Success**: Successful operations and completions
- ⚠️ **Warning**: Important notices (like settlement triggers)
- ❌ **Error**: Failed operations or issues

### **Key Log Messages to Watch For**

#### **Virtual Account Creation**
```
🏦 Creating virtual account for testing
✅ Virtual account created successfully
```

#### **Payment Processing**
```
💳 Simulating ₦50,000 payment
🔔 WEBHOOK RECEIVED: Virtual Account 1234567890
💰 PAYMENT AMOUNT: ₦50,000 (settled: ₦49,500)
```

#### **Commission Calculations**
```
💼 COMMISSION CALCULATION:
   - Total Platform Commission: ₦500
   - InsureFlow Commission (0.75%): ₦375
   - Habari Commission (0.25%): ₦125
   - Net Settlement Amount: ₦49,000
```

#### **Settlement Processing**
```
🎯 SETTLEMENT CHECK:
   - Current Balance: ₦49,500
   - Settlement Threshold: ₦50,000
   - Auto-Settlement Enabled: True
🚀 SETTLEMENT TRIGGERED: Threshold exceeded, initiating auto-settlement
```

#### **GAPS Integration**
```
🏛️ Processing auto-settlement via GAPS for company: Secure Life Insurance
✅ GAPS settlement completed successfully
```

## 🎯 **What Each Test Demonstrates**

### **For Business Stakeholders**
- **Revenue Flow**: How payments flow from customers to insurance companies
- **Commission Structure**: Transparent 1% platform fee (0.75% + 0.25% split)
- **Settlement Automation**: Automatic transfers when thresholds are reached
- **Real-time Processing**: Immediate webhook processing and settlement triggers

### **For Technical Stakeholders**
- **API Integration**: Squad Co virtual accounts and payment simulation
- **Webhook Processing**: Real-time payment notifications and processing
- **GAPS Integration**: Bulk transfer capabilities to insurance company accounts
- **Error Handling**: Robust error detection and recovery mechanisms

### **For Compliance/Finance**
- **Audit Trail**: Complete transaction logging with timestamps
- **Commission Transparency**: Clear breakdown of all fees and distributions
- **Settlement Tracking**: Detailed records of all GAPS transfers
- **Threshold Management**: Configurable settlement thresholds per account

## 🔧 **Troubleshooting**

### **Common Issues and Solutions**

#### **"No virtual accounts found"**
- **Solution**: Click "Create Virtual Account" first
- **Cause**: Testing requires at least one virtual account

#### **"Payment simulation failed"**
- **Solution**: Check that Squad Co sandbox credentials are configured
- **Cause**: API keys may be missing or incorrect

#### **"GAPS settlement failed"**
- **Solution**: This is expected in sandbox mode - GAPS provides mock responses
- **Cause**: GAPS credentials are for production, not sandbox testing

#### **"Settlement not triggered"**
- **Solution**: Use amounts above ₦50,000 or select "Settlement Flow" scenario
- **Cause**: Payment amount is below the settlement threshold

## 📈 **Success Metrics**

### **What Indicates Successful Testing**
- ✅ Virtual accounts created without errors
- ✅ Payments processed and webhooks received
- ✅ Commission calculations are accurate (1% total)
- ✅ Settlement triggers work when thresholds are exceeded
- ✅ GAPS integration responds (even with mock data)
- ✅ All logs show clear, timestamped progression

### **Performance Benchmarks**
- **Virtual Account Creation**: < 3 seconds
- **Payment Simulation**: < 2 seconds
- **Webhook Processing**: < 1 second
- **Settlement Trigger**: < 2 seconds
- **GAPS Response**: < 5 seconds (or immediate mock response)

## 🎉 **Demo Script for Presentations**

### **5-Minute Stakeholder Demo**

1. **Introduction** (30 seconds)
   - "Today I'll demonstrate our complete payment infrastructure"
   - "Everything you'll see runs in real-time through our dashboard"

2. **Single Payment Demo** (2 minutes)
   - Select "Single Payment" scenario
   - Click "Full Payment Flow"
   - **Narrate the logs**: "Watch as we create a virtual account, simulate a ₦50,000 payment, process the webhook, calculate commissions, and trigger settlement"

3. **Bulk Payment Demo** (2 minutes)
   - Select "Bulk Payments" scenario
   - Click "Full Payment Flow"
   - **Highlight**: "Notice how we handle multiple payments simultaneously and process them as a single GAPS bulk transfer"

4. **Key Benefits Summary** (30 seconds)
   - "Real-time processing with complete audit trails"
   - "Automated settlements with transparent commission structure"
   - "Robust GAPS integration for reliable transfers"

## 🔒 **Security and Compliance Notes**

- **Sandbox Environment**: All testing uses sandbox credentials - no real money is transferred
- **Data Privacy**: Test data is isolated and doesn't affect production systems
- **Audit Compliance**: All test transactions are logged with full audit trails
- **Access Control**: Testing interface is only available to authorized admin users

## 📞 **Support and Questions**

If you encounter any issues during testing or have questions about the payment flow:

- **Technical Issues**: Check the browser console for detailed error messages
- **Business Questions**: Review the commission calculations in the simulation summary
- **Integration Concerns**: Examine the GAPS transfer logs for API responses

---

**This testing interface demonstrates InsureFlow's production-ready payment infrastructure with complete transparency and real-time monitoring capabilities.** 🚀
